Flush API update in mobile SDK (#598)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/stream-sources/rudderstack-sdk-integration-guides/rudderstack-android-sdk/flushing-events-periodically.mdx

---
# slug: "/docs/stream-sources/rudderstack-sdk-integration-guides/rudderstack-android-sdk/flushing-events-periodically"
title: "Flushing Events"

> description: Detailed steps to flush events from the RudderStack SDK’s internal database to Rudder Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Detailed steps to flush events from the Android SDK’s internal database to the RudderStack server.
```

---
# Flushing Events

> Android SDK supports the `flush()` API. It retrieves all the messages present in the database, divides them into individual batches and flushes them to the Rudder Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Android SDK supports the `flush()` API. It retrieves all the messages present in the database, divides them into individual batches based on the specified queue size, and flushes them to the RudderStack server/backend.
```

> For example, if the `flushQueueSize` is 30 and there are 180 events in the database advanced the `flush()` API is called, the Android SDK will retrieve all those events and divide them into batches of 30 messages each, that is, total 6 batches. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the `flushQueueSize` is 30 and there are 180 events in the database when the `flush()` API is called, the SDK will retrieve all those events and divide them into batches of 30 messages each, that is, into 6 batches. 
```

> If a batch fails for some reason, the remaining batches are dropped as well to maintain the sequence of the messages. A batch is considered as failed if it isn’t sent to the server even after 3 retries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a batch fails for some reason, RudderStack drops the remaining batches to maintain the sequence of the messages. A batch is considered as failed if it isn’t sent to the RudderStack server after 3 retries. 
```

> In the device mode, the `flush()` API also calls the destination SDK’s `flush()` API (if exists).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the device mode, the `flush()` API also calls the destination SDK’s `flush()` API (if applicable).  
```

> ## Flushing Events Periodically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Flushing events periodically
```
